In our last video, we're going to add
some finishing touches to our dashboard
using macros, hyperlinks and themes.
The first thing Ron would like to do
is free up a little real estate on
the screen.
We don't really need to see
the 1,2,3,4 a,b,c,d in a dashboard, so
to turn them off you can come to
your view tab and unselect Headings.
The next thing Ron wants to be able to
do is offer the users a way of drilling
down and seeing more information
about the selected region.
Now he is created the drill
down dashboard already, but
he'd like users to be able to get
there by just clicking on the map.
And we can do this by adding a hyperlink.
Now you can actually add
a hyperlink to a chart, but
Ron wants to constrain
the area to just the plot.
So we're going to use a shape instead,
and we're going to click Insert, Shapes.
Just get a regular rectangle and draw
it to cover the plot area of our chart.
We don't want the shape turn outline,
so let's just switch that off.
And it's tempting to turn
off the fill as well, but
if you do that when they click and it'll
actually click through into the chart.
So we're not going to do that,
we can now press control one
to open up our format panel.
We're going to come to fill, and
we're going to set our transparency 200%.
So the fill is there,
but you can't see it.
Now we will close up the panel.
And now will add the hyper link.
You can do this by either coming to
the Insert tab and selecting link or
hyperlink depending on your version.
Or you can just right click on the item
you want to add the hyperlink to and
again just choose link or hyperlink.
You can hyperlink to just about
anything website, another file.
But we want to link to somewhere
else in this document, so
I'm going to select
place in this document.
I'm going to scroll up to
my drill down sheet and
I'm going to make the cell C3
because it's behind the tiles.
And I'm going to say OK.
Now if I click away for a moment,
bring your cursor back over the map,
you'll see the hand appears.
And when I click,
it takes me to the drill down.
And Ron has already created a hyperlink
to get us back such as click on the back
button and we're back.
One of the really important things to
remember with both Pivot Tables and
Pivot Charts is that when
the underlying data changes,
they do not automatically refresh.
So it's a really good idea to
give your users an easy way of
refreshing all the Pivot Charts
in your dashboard.
And we are we going to do
this using a simple macro.
Now let's set up first, so we're going
to click on one of the Pivot Charts.
And if we come to your
Pivot Chart analyze tab,
what we're going to record ourselves
doing is coming to the refresh button,
clicking the dropdown and
hitting Refresh All.
Now coming back to our Developer tab,
we're going to click Record Macro and
we're going to call it Refresh.
And I'm going to press Enter.
Now we're going to come to
our Pivot Chart analyze.
I'm going to click the dropdown.
Press Refresh All.
And then don't forget to come to
the Developer and click stop recording.
To run the macro, we're going to give
the users a nice little icon, and
this is already in your workbooks.
If you just come to
the right of the dashboard,
click and
drag that icon onto your first tile.
If it goes behind the tile, don't panic.
Just come to Graphics Format, come to
Bring Forward and choose Bring to Front.
We also need to ungroup
these four objects.
So I'm just going to click Group and
Ungroup.
And now click away for a moment.
This is our refresh icon, so to assign the
macro we're going to right click on it.
Come to Assign Macro.
And select Refresh and OK.
Now when the users need to refresh the
dashboard, all they need to do is click on
this icon and it will update
all the charts in the workbook.
One final feature Ron would like to
include in dashboard is the option to
switch between a few
different color schemes.
And we're going to do this using
a combination of themes and macros.
Let's start by having
a look at the themes so
the are available on the page layout tab.
And the very first button is called
themes, and when I click the drop down, if
I hover over one of the themes you'll see
the whole look of my dashboard changes.
Themes control the fonts, the colors and
the effects throughout
the entire workbook.
But because they can change your fonts and
therefore change the sizes,
that can actually throw
your dashboard out of wack.
So for us it will be safer
to just change the colors.
So just to the right of the themes button,
you'll see a colors button and
this gives you quite
a lot of color options.
But if you want to set up your own,
you can.
You do this by coming
to customized colors.
And here you can come and
set up any color palettes
you like to tie in with your
organization or your branding.
The important ones are the first one,
which is your default text color.
Your six accent colors are the colors you
are going to see in all your graphics, so
your charts and your slices.
And then you have two hyperlink colors.
We're not actually going to
change any of these, but
we are currently not working
with the standard color set.
So we're going to save it and
we're going to call it Aqua.
And we're just going to click Save.
That color scheme is now available
not only in every Excel workbook, but
across the whole Microsoft Office
suite on your machine.
If you needed to make it available to
other users, if you come to Themes and
save current theme, that will save it as
an external file with the extension thmx.
And you can then distribute
that to other colleagues so
they also have access to that theme.
What we're going to do now is record
ourselves changing the theme colors.
Now I'm just going to click on to
one of the Pivot Charts we can
easily access the refresh button as well.
And we're going to come to our Developer
tab and we're going to click Record Macro.
We're going to call this theme blue.
And I'm going to press Enter.
And then we're going to come
to our page layout tab.
We're going to come to Colors and
I'm going to choose one of the Blues.
And then just to make sure that
everything is nicely refreshed,
I'm gona come to Pivot Chart.
Click the drop down and refresh all.
Then I can come back to my Developer
tab and click stop recording.
All right,
we will repeat that one more time.
So we're going to click Record Macro.
This is going to be theme Aqua.
We're going to come to our Page Layout,
click Colors.
There's our custom Aqua theme, and again,
I'm just going to refresh, so Refresh All.
Come back to Developer, stop recording.
And we already have the macro for
theme green,
so the only thing left to do is to
assign our macros to our color buttons.
So I'm going to click on the first
little circle which is my Aqua.
Right click, Assign Macro and
that's going to be theme Aqua.
And then I'll just repeat that for
the other two buttons.
So next one is blue.
And finally, my green.
Clicking away, let's test that works,
so there's my theme blue.
And there's my theme Aqua.
And that is our finished dashboard.
It's been an exciting few weeks where
we've looked at how we can extract useful
intel for more data using Pivot tables.
Looked at a huge variety of
great visualizations, and
then we've pulled it all together with
a stunning interactive dashboard.
That's all we have to show you for
now, but
we look forward to seeing
what you have to show us.
So if you've had your own ideas or
you created your own dashboards,
would love for you to post them
in this weeks creative corner.
And if you still looking to learn more,
there is more to come.
We have one last course in the
specialization where we're going to unlock
Excels full business intelligence
capability using power query,
power pivot, and
even sneak peek at power BI.
Look forward to seeing you there.